# Defining Modules to Control Scope and Privacy

- **Start from the crate root**: When compiling a crate, the compiler first looks in the crate root file (usually _src/lib.rs_ for a library crate or _src/main.rs_ for a binary crate) for code to compile.
- **Declaring modules**: In the crate root file, you can declare new modules; say, you declare a "garden" module with `mod garden;`. The compiler will look for the module's code in these places;
  - Inline, within curly brackets that replace the semicolon following `mod garden`
  - In the file _src/garden.rs_
  - In the file _src/garden/mod.rs_
- **Declaring submodules**: In any file other than the crate root, you can declare submodules. For example, you might declare `mod vegetables;` in _src/garden.rs_. The compiler will look for the submodule's code within the directory named for the parent module in these places:
  - Inline, directly following `mod vegetables`, with in curly brackets instead of the semicolon
  - In the file _src/garden/vegetables.rs_
  - In the file _src/garden/vegetables/mod.rs_
- **Paths to code in modules**: Once a module is part of your crate, you can refer to code in that module from anywhere else in that same crate, as long as the privacy rules allow, using the path to the code. For example, an `Asparagus` type in the garden vegetables module would be found at `crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus`.
- **Private vs public**: Code within a module is private from its parent modules by default. To make a module public, declare it with `pub mod` instead of `mod`. To make items within a public module public as well, use `pub` before their declarations.
- **The `use` keyword**: Within a scope, the `use` keyword creates shortcuts to items to reduce repetition of long paths. In any scope that can refer to `crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus`, you can create a shortcut with `use crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus;` and from then on you only need to write `Asparagus` to make use of that type in the scope.

Here we create a binary crate named `backyard` that illustrates these rules.

```text
backyard
├── Cargo.lock
├── Cargo.toml
└── src
    ├── garden
    │   └── vegetables.rs
    ├── garden.rs
    └── main.rs
```

The crate root file in this case is _src/main.rs_, and it contains:

Filename: src/main.rs

```rust
use crate::garden::vegetables::Asparagus;

pub mod garden;

fn main() {
    let plant = Asparagus {};
    println!("I'm growing {:?}!", plant);
}
```

The `pub mod garden;` line tells the compiler to include the code it finds in _src/garden.rs_, which is:

Filename: src/garden.rs

```rust
pub mod vegetables;
```

Here, `pub mod vegetables;` means the code in _src/garden/vegetables.rs_ is included too. That code is:

```rust
#[derive(Debug)]
pub struct Asparagus {}
```

## Grouping Related Code in Modules

_Modules_ let us organize code with a crate for readability and easy reuse.

Create a new library named `restaurant` by running `cargo new restaurant --lib;`.

Filename: src/lib.rs

```rust
mod front_of_house {
    mod hosting {
        fn add_to_waitlist() {}

        fn seat_at_table() {}
    }

    mod serving {
        fn take_order() {}

        fn serve_order() {}

        fn take_payment() {}
    }
}
```

The module tree:

```text
crate
 └── front_of_house
     ├── hosting
     │   ├── add_to_waitlist
     │   └── seat_at_table
     └── serving
         ├── take_order
         ├── serve_order
         └── take_payment
```
