# Control Flow

## `if` Expression

Because `if` is an expression, we can use it on the right side of a `let` statement to assign the outcome to a variable.

```rust
fn main() {
  let condition = true;
  let number = if condition { 5 } else { 6 };
}
```

## Repetition with Loops

- loop
- while
- for

### Repeating Code with `loop`

The `loop` keyword tell Rust to execute a block of code over and over agin forever or until you explicitly tell it to stop.

```rust
fn main() {
  loop {
    println!("again!")
  }
}
```

You can place the `break` keyword within the loop to tell the program when to stop executing the loop.

We also used `continue` in the program, which in a loop tells the program to skip over any remaining code in this iteration of the loop and go to the next iteration.

### Returning Values from Loops

One of the use of a `loop` is to retry an operation you know might fail, such as checking whether a thread has completed its job. You might also need to pass the result of that operation out of the loop to the rest of your code. To do this, you can add the value you want returned after the `break` expression you use to stop the loop; that value will be returned out of the loop so you can use it, as shown here:

```rust
fn man() {
  let mut counter = 0;
  let result = loop {
    count += 1;
    if counter == 10 {
      break counter * 2;
    }
  };
}
```

### Loop Labels to Disambiguate Between Multiple Loops

If you have loops within loops, `break` and `continue` apply to the innermost loop at that point. You can optionally specify a _loop label_ on a loop that we can then use with `break` or `continue` to specify that those keywords apply to the labeled loop instead of the innermost loop. Loop labels must begin with a single quote.

```rust
fn main() {
  let mut count = 0;
  'counting_up: loop {
    println!("count = {count}");
    let mut remaining = 10;

    loop {
      println!("remaining = {remaining}");
      if remaining == 9 {
        break;
      }
      if count == 2 {
        break 'counting_up;
      }
      remaining -= 1;
    }

    count += 1;
  }
  println!("End count = {count}");
}
```

### Conditional Loops with `while`

`While` eliminates a lot of nesting that would be necessary if you used `loop`, `if`, `else`, and `break`, and it's clearer.

```rust
fn main() {
  let mut number = 3;
  while number != 0 {
    println!("{number}!");
    number -= 1;
  }
  println!("LIFTOFF!!!");
}
```

### Looping Through a Collection with `for`

```rust
fn main() {
  let a = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
  for element in a {
    println!("the value is: {element}");
  }
}
```
