# Data Types

## Scalar Types

Rust has four primary scalar types:

- integers
- floating-point number
- Booleans
- characters

### Integer Types

| Length  | Signed | Unsigned |
| :------ | :----- | :------- |
| 8-bit   | i8     | u8       |
| 16-bit  | i16    | u16      |
| 32-bit  | i32    | u32      |
| 64-bit  | i64    | u64      |
| 128-bit | i128   | u128     |
| arch    | isize  | usize    |

- Signed: $-(2^{n-1}) \enspace\text{---}\enspace 2^{n-1} - 1$
- Unsigned: $0 \enspace\text{---}\enspace 2^n -1$

Additionally, the `isize` and `usize` types depend on the architecture of the computer your program is running on.

Integer Literals in Rust:

| Number literals | Example     |
| --------------- | ----------- |
| Decimal         | 98_222      |
| Hex             | 0xff        |
| Octal           | 0o77        |
| Binary          | 0b1111_0000 |
| Byte (u8 only)  | b'A         |

> **Integer Overflow**
>
> To explicitly handle the possibility of overflow, you can use these families of methods provided by the standard library for primitive numeric types:
>
> - Wrap in all modes with the `wrapping_*` methods, such as `wrapping_add`.
> - Return the `None` value if there is overflow with the `checked_*` method.
> - Return the value and a boolean indicating whether there was overflow with the `overflowing_*` methods.
> - Saturate at the value's minimum or maximum values with the `saturating_*` methods.

### Floating-Point Types

- f32
- f64 (default)

### Numeric Operations

- `+`
- `-`
- `*`
- `/`
- `%`

### The Boolean Type

- true
- false

### The character Type

Rust's `char` type is four bytes in size and represents a Unicode Scalar Value, which means it can represent a lot more than just ASCII.

## Compound Types

_Compound types_ can group multiple values into one type. Rust has two primitive compound types:

- tuples
- arrays

### The Tuple Type

A tuple is a general way of grouping together a number of values with a variety of types into one compound type. Tuples have a fixed length: once declared, they cannot grow or shrink in size.

```rust
fn main() {
  let tup: (i32, f64, u8) = (500, 6.4, 1);
}
```

Tuple can destructuring, and access a tuple element directly by using a period(.) `let x = tup.0; // get 500`

The tuple without any values has a special name, **Unit**.

### The Array Type

Unlike a tuple, every element of an array must have the same type. _Unlike arrays in some other languages, arrays in Rust have a fixed length._

```rust
fn main() {
  let a: [i32; 5] = [1,2,3,4,5];
}
```

Arrays are useful when you want your data allocated on the **stack** rather than the heap.

```rust
let a: [i32; 5] = [3; 5];
// equal
let a: [i32; 5] = [3, 3, 3, 3, 3];
```

Accessing array elements:

```rust
fn main() {
  let a = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
  let first = a[0];
  let second = a[1];
}
```
